it's no secret that I'm kind of a
Macbook guy so when Apple's new M3
MacBook launched I kind of started to
second guess my framework 16 pre-order
so when we had to unbox it for short
circuit I figured this is the perfect
time to get a little bit of handson now
I did pre-order a framework 16 to
replace my kind of Aging now Intel Core
I9 MacBook Pro which is also a 16-in
full disclosure Linus is invested in
framework I am not they just look really
sick and I want to try one but this
could be a serious competitor I like the
framework for its repairability and the
modular discret GPU but man there is
something to be said for Macos battery
life I don't know if I'll be able to go
back to Windows in a laptop form factor
this is the 16-in MacBook Pro M3 Pro the
pro pro M3 pro pro I like this this has
letters I like I like M3s I like pros
and I like MacBooks I think this color
is called space BL black pretty sexy if
I were to hold it like that that's
that's like the same color as a normal
MacBook and then I'm it's down now it's
black who crazy Inside the Box we've got
the usual Apple propaganda here designed
by Apple in
California
stickers wait is this a is this a joke
dude there's a spacer in here it looks
like there's more in there there's not
that's just like folded cardboard maybe
it's so all the boxes can be the same
and like some countries have more
regulatory stuff than others we've got
the standard Apple charger this is 140 W
brick man Apple's going to have to start
making these things smaller and then
there is the really sexy Apple cables
what is this this is this got to be 2 m
they don't list it on the Apple website
but uh I think it's 2 m for comparison
sake here is the M3 non-pro 14in MacBook
Pro and then this is the last generation
M2 Pro MacBook Pro 14 I just wanted to
see visually physically if the 14s were
any different it doesn't look like it I
mean the keyboard it's the same I mean
which one is this even the M2 this is
the M2
okay you're definitely not like flexing
you know when the new iPhone comes out
you can always tell oh they've got like
the big cameras the fancy ones oh it's
the titanium one nope this one just
looks the same in order we've got our M3
Pro on the bottom M3 nonpr and M2 Pro
the I/O on this side is going to be
functionally looking the same you've got
two Thunderbolt 4/ usb4 you've got your
magsafe charger and audio except on the
non-pro these are Thunderbolt 3 instead
of Thunderbolt 4 but they do also still
support USB 4 across the Spectrum it was
the same on the M2 generation as it is
on the M3 generation in that regard on
the other side we've got HDMI an extra
Thunderbolt if you have a pro or better
CPU and then an SD card reader but for
the rest of this I'm want to focus on
the space black one ooh but before I can
get to the software I got to tell you
about our sponsor dbrand this is Jake
Bell's laptop which has this cool tear
down skin here I am a big fan of putting
a skin on my laptop and I'm not just
saying that cuz it's sponsored they
protect your laptop from scratches which
is the big thing especially if you're
somebody that likes to upgrade every
couple years uh and sell your old one
having it be minty underneath that skin
big selling bonus now on the topic of
tear down they have the spiritual
successor to tear down now called x-ray
the Mad Lads at brand literally hauled a
bunch of MacBooks into a specialized
Metrology lab resulting in ultra high
detailed highquality scans of the
devices x-ray comes in both light and
dark variants but for a limited time
dbrand is offering you both for the
price of one so if you'd like to pick up
some x-ray skins for your MacBook or any
other device head to short.com okay
let's look at the damn software looks
like
Macos feels like Mac OS even smells like
Macos physically speaking it's not super
clear what the difference differences
are here but Apple has this handy thing
on their website that allows you to
compare Mac models this is not a very
Apple feeling feature to have on their
website until you start scrolling down
and then it makes more sense because up
to a 16 core CPU you know it sounds like
oh this is an M3 Pro I'm going to get
more cores on my M2 Pro not really same
thing for the GPU and the memory if we
scroll down you can see the M2 Pro is a
12 core with eight performance cores and
four efficiency cores while the M3 Pro
also a 12 core except it has less
performance cores and more efficiency
ones we'll see in the labs testing if it
actually makes a major difference I
suspect knowing that it's Apple that it
probably doesn't make a huge difference
we are moving to tsmc's 3 nanometer
process node on the new CPUs so there's
going to be an efficiency Improvement I
bet you looking at this that they're
going to take that Improvement make the
laptop be better on battery and perform
pretty similarly ALS also we have less
memory bandwidth um for most people
probably not going to make a big
difference for video editing might but
also there's a ton of Hardware
acceleration on MacBook so maybe less we
do have av1 decoding which is great uh
no does it not have encoding for av1
yeah okay Bell confirmed no av1 encoding
kind of weird you get a little bit more
RAM on the same skew so 16 versus 18
gigs compared to the M2 dang this like
the same level laptop uh so maybe the
next laptop for me is going to be a used
M2 Pro for a substantial discount let's
try out the
[Music]
speakers I think they're the same they
both sound good if you really care that
much put headphones in I mean display
display looks good is it different I
don't think so I didn't see anything
different in the specs page so probably
not but let's take a look at the labs
results and see in terms of brightness
on the display we're pretty much right
in line with what Apple rates it as for
display brightness in SDR we're at 600
nits which is exactly what Apple rates
it as and for Peak HDR brightness in xdr
mode as Apple calls it we're right at600
nits as rated uh I think we did see ever
so slightly higher on a full screen test
it looks like it was around 1,00 and
Apple only says 1,000 so that's cool
they're decently color accurate the P3
gamut coverage is pretty much
effectively 100% the average SDR Delta e
are around 1.5 average around 3 to 3.5
Max which is decently color accurate
although the default HDR mode tends to
kind of over brighten what you see uh to
give it a bit of more of a Punchy Costco
effect but there is a picture mode
called PQ 2084 that tracks HDR
brightness much more accurately and as
with the last generation the local
dimming is still some of the best we've
seen on pretty much any non OLED display
you're looking at 2,000 plus zones on
the 14in and then 2500 Plus on the 16in
which is really good considering how
small that screen is but what about
performance H the single threader
performance is quite a bit better like
in the range of 20% Which is substantial
even the non-pro M3 is tracking 20%
faster than an M2 Max last time or about
17% faster than the M2 Pro which is
pretty substantial moving over to
multicore at least in cine bench 2024
the M3 pro picks up 30 plus% on an M2
Pro albeit in a 14-in chassis which is
quite substantial that 3 nimer process
node is offering some substantial
substantial performance here even
considering we have less performance
more efficiency cores I kind of assumed
it was going to be the same but lower
power draw um but it seems like it's
better and probably lower power draw
battery life has expected excels on
these new MacBooks we're looking at 24
1/2 hours in our YouTube endurance test
on the 16in and around 21 hours on the
14-in that's to be expected because it's
a pretty substantially smaller battery
in the 14-in chassis for stress test
pretty much exactly the same and then
the time to full charge is around an
hour and a half and an hour and 45
respectively much bigger charger on the
16-in and then a smaller battery on the
14in so those kind of balance each other
out to be pretty similar overall after
I've looked at some of the other
benchmarks it seems like in a fair few
situations we quite a bit faster on this
new generation which is great it's
probably going to be more efficient
you're talking a 3 nanometer process
node which is quite a bit smaller we
have more transistors from the M2
non-pro to the M3 non-pro 20 billion to
25 billion which is a huge increase
except confusingly going from the M2 Pro
to the M3 Pro we have less 40 billion
versus 37 and still it's generally
faster one thing that I'm noting out of
all of this is the M2 Pro Mac Mini is
kind of a superstar it seems most of the
time it's like almost as fast so if
you're just using this at your desk you
might want to look at a Mac Mini from
last
gen either way faster laptop in most
cases battery life still nuts as ever
screen still excellent I like the new
colors Apple keep doing a good job you
make great laptops but they are godamn
expensive like seriously how much is
this thing I don't even want to look
$1,600 for the base spec 14in MacBook
Pro if we look at the 16-in MacBook Pro
which is what I'm interested in maybe
I'm less interested now in 16in land
it's
$2500 for the Bas speec M3 Pro that's a
12 core CPU 18 core GPU 18 gigs of RAM
and a 512 gig SSD you bump up to 36 gigs
of RAM like we have and a 1 tbte 3100
with a 512 2900 and if you go for the M3
Max it starts at 3500 USR what's the
just humor me what is the most expensive
MacBook Pro holy crap that is
H maybe I'll be uh a buying for a new
credit card
soon if you're interested in more
information on these laptops Mac address
our Apple channel will have a full
review coming very shortly get
subscribed like the video God damn why
do the nice things have to be so
expensive it's just
pretty damn